hi I'm Joel Jones I own Jonesy's Inc we
specialize in customizing and restoring
classic cars and hot rods out of
Ridgefield Washington and today I'm
going to talk about some of the
specialty equipment and basic tools that
you're gonna need for your own project
what I'm standing right next to is your
basic milling machine if you're going to
be doing any kind of customizing or
fabricating of any brackets for putting
specific engines in cars or converting
different transmissions or differentials
you're going to need to be able to drill
holes slot holes and fabricate special
parts and the best way to do that is
with a milling machine it gives you
dimensional tolerances in three
different axes X Y & Z by utilizing all
the different levers in addition to that
allows you to remove material shave
things down with end mills put different
surface finishes on different materials
and alter the thickness with very very
precise accuracy less expensive
substitute is obviously a drill press
and you can get pretty extensive drill
presses with cross slides and different
feeds to kind of band-aid your
fabricating skills the next specialized
piece of equipment I'm going to talk
about is the lathe the mill is good for
doing work on flat pieces of material
aluminum steel pretty much anything you
can even do plastic the lathe on the
other hand is used for turning round
parts dialing in the outside diamond or
the inside diameter of a bushing cutting
threads drilling holes in the center of
round objects that would be otherwise
very very difficult to do on the mill
you can't really have a complete custom
fabrication shop without these these
pieces of equipment otherwise you'll
really really struggle to try to get the
dimensional tolerances that you need and
therefore your projects won't be as nice
things won't fit quite as well and
everything will be sloppy another
essential piece of equipment is the
hydraulic press basically the press is
used to apply direct force to bearing
races axle bearings anything that you
need to force on that you shouldn't be
using a hammer blow
well some of the things that you need to
think about if you're gonna go out and
buy a press they actually are fairly
inexpensive this one is a pneumatic
press which means that it uses air
pressure to actuate but a lot of them
you can go out and get our manual that
just have a little bottle Jack that you
apply you just pump yourself you need to
take some time and try to accumulate
some of the special tools to go along
with the press the most common is what's
called a bearing splitter and these come
in all different sizes in there and
absolute must if you're trying to remove
bearings from different shafts in
addition to that you need different
types of material like I've got a bunch
of brass cylinders here that you can put
underneath of the press to apply a force
directly on to a bearing or shaft or
anything like anything else also
aluminum blocks anything that takes up
space because inevitably when you're
pressing on something your geometry
isn't going to be accurate and you need
spacers to take up the slop in addition
to that you also need an assortment of
old bearing races that you can put over
things to to press down on and I always
keep any time I get a strange size of
bearing that I replace that wears out I
always keep the races and throw them in
here on the press so that if I ever run
into something that needs a special size
to push on then I've got it
the next piece of equipment I'm going to
talk about is an absolute shop must
whether it's in your garage or you have
an external workshop every single shop
has to have some kind of a compressed
air system this one is a pretty big
compressor it's 7 1/2 horsepower motor
on it and it puts out about 180 psi
every single shop whether it's any size
has to be able to blow tools or blow
parts off and run air tools whether it's
a sand blaster an impact gun or any of
the other small tools this air
compressor is absolutely indispensable
and you should not try to tackle any
kind of a restoration job without some
kind of compressed air a piece of shop
equipment that I would also consider a
necessity
is a TIG welder TIG stands for tungsten
inert gas and this by far is the most
versatile welder that that I've got
it'll weld aluminum stainless steel mild
steel any kind of material that you
really want it takes a lot of skill in
order to be able to do this effectively
but its versatility is worth any
investment that you're gonna make in it
obviously expense of these is may exceed
what your average hobbyist will want to
do but if you're gonna be extensively
working with stainless or aluminum then
you must have a TIG welder in your shop
the next piece of equipment I'm going to
talk about is a plasma cutter now a
plasma cutter is kind of I would
classify as a specialized piece of
equipment because it's not absolutely
necessary but it boy it sure really
speeds up the process when you have to
cut any kind of metal basically the
plasma cutter you hook up to the
compressed air system and you plug it
into the wall and then you can cut
through any kind of thickness of
material you want whether it's rusty
metal you're cutting out of your floor
pans or if you need to cut a piece of
sheet metal to make a new patch panel
for your project a plasma cutter will do
that very very well a plasma cutter can
also sometimes substitute other tools
like a shear if you use a guide and you
run the torch right along the guide you
can cut sheet metal very very quickly
with almost no warpage at all and have
it be almost as good an edge as a
sheared piece of sheet metal most of the
time plasma we use it to cut off rusty
bolts shear sheet metal with it
and cut out rusty sheet metal because of
the speed that it has